so we looked at the fluid mechanics of
how stinging nettle inject poison and so
this strategy of using a stinger is
quite unique in the plant kingdom it's
estimated that around 1% of plants have
stingers of some form now the nettle
family has a unique stinger which looks
a little bit like a pipette like this so
it sits on the leaf and as you touch it
it injects a poison
so this stinger is really it's a one
cell it has a mineral reinforced cell
wall so it's think of it as a glass
syringe and it sits on a soft base first
you have to penetrate the skin so
there's a little cap on the stinger that
falls off just as you penetrate that
releases a small amount of the poison so
say a few percent then you push it down
so you compress the base here a little
bit as you do like this and that
releases a bit more but the majority of
the poison is really released in the
bending which compresses this is a
little poison reservoir so you can
essentially empty the entire thing out
and you can map the flow going out as a
function of how much you Bend so
understanding the mechanics of stinging
objects is important for several reasons
so one is to understand phenomena and
biology but there are many technical
areas where you use stingers so in
medical research there is the need to
inject and so understanding the
mechanics of these systems is important
to enable efficient drug delivery
you